---
layout: post
title: Rules
date: 2025-08-15 05:00:00 +0800
---
> The only way to build wealth is to have a gap between your ego and your income.  
> **A lot of financial debates are just people with different time horizons talking over each other.**  
> **If your expectations grow faster than your income you’ll never be happy with your money no matter how much you accumulate.**  
> People have vastly different desires, except for three things: Respect, feeling useful, and control over their time. Those are nearly universal.  
> **Money’s greatest intrinsic value is its ability to give you control over your time.**  
> Woodrow Wilson talked about whether something was accountable to Darwin or accountable to Newton. It’s a useful idea. Everything is accountable to one of the two, and you have to know whether something adapts and changes over time or perpetually stays the same.  
> **Tell people what they want to hear and you can be wrong indefinitely without penalty.**  
> A lot of good writing makes points that people already intuitively know but haven’t yet put into words. It works because readers learn something new without having to expend much energy questioning whether it’s true. The alternatives are points that are obvious and well known (boring) or something that’s non-obvious and unknown (often takes too much effort to understand and impatient readers leave).  
> **If something is impossible to know you are better off not being very smart, because smart people fool themselves into thinking they know while average people are more likely to shrug their shoulders and end up closer to reality.**  
> Risk’s greatest fuels are leverage, overconfidence, ego, and impatience. Its greatest antidote is having options, humility, and other people’s trust.  
>
> \- [Little Rules About Big Things](https://collabfund.com/blog/little-rules-about-big-things/)  
